README.md, before:

# Personal Package Archive for Openvario

A layer for OpenVario firmware build system that builds a personal package
archive (a.k.a. PPA), containing a set of extra applications, not shipped with
the official image. The layer is responsible for building `.ipk` packages and
`opkg` repository that can be uploaded to a public server.

## Packages included

* `openvario-shell` - [Alternative Openvario Menu](https://github.com/kedder/openvario-shell)
* `openvario-compman` - [Openvario Competition Manager](https://github.com/kedder/openvario-compman)
* `ovmenu-compman` - menu entry Competition Manager for Openvario menu system
* `syncthing` - [Syncthing](https://syncthing.net/), continuous file synchronization program

## Using the PPA

In order to use the PPA, you need to reference it in `opkg` configuration:

```
$ echo src kedder-ppa http://openvario.lebedev.lt/opkg/armv7vet2hf-neon >> /etc/opkg/customfeeds.conf
$ opkg update
```

Then packages can be installed using regular `opkg` commands, for example:

```
$ opkg install openvario-compman
```

## Building the PPA

In order to build the packages, this layer needs to be added to the working
openvario build. Check out [OpenVario build
instructions](https://github.com/Openvario/meta-openvario) for details on
setting up the build environment.

Start the build container (replace `$PPA_DIR` with path to ppa working directory):

```sh
docker run -it --rm \
  -v $(pwd):/workdir \
  -v $PPA_DIR:/workdir/meta-ovshell \
  -v $PPA_DIR/conf/bblayers.override.conf:/workdir/conf/bblayers.conf \
  --workdir=/workdir \
  ghcr.io/openvario/ovbuild-container:main

source openembedded-core/oe-init-build-env . 
```

Build can be configured using these variables in your `local.conf`:

* `PPA_UPLOAD_DEST` - destination for uploading the PPA repository. In
  `host:path` format

Building the ppa is done using this command:

```
$ bitbake ppa-repo -c build_ppa
```

The package archive will end up in `tmp/deploy/ppa` directory of the build
workspace directory. Build system also creates a shell script to upload
packages to the public server using rsync, which can be run from the shell:

```
$ tmp/deploy/ppa-upload.sh
```

## Building the complete image

It is possible to build the complete image with all software included in this PPA. Use this command:

```sh
bitbake openvario-image-ovshell
```

## Adding new software to PPA

The list of packages included in the PPA is provided in `DEPENDS` variable of
`recipes-ppa/repo/ppa-repo.bb` recipe. New packages are added by creating build
recipes and referencing them in this variable.

Commit message:

Docker compose service for build container

README.md, after:

# Personal Package Archive for Openvario

A layer for OpenVario firmware build system that builds a personal package
archive (a.k.a. PPA), containing a set of extra applications, not shipped with
the official image. The layer is responsible for building `.ipk` packages and
`opkg` repository that can be uploaded to a public server.

## Packages included

* `openvario-shell` - [Alternative Openvario Menu](https://github.com/kedder/openvario-shell)
* `openvario-compman` - [Openvario Competition Manager](https://github.com/kedder/openvario-compman)
* `ovmenu-compman` - menu entry Competition Manager for Openvario menu system
* `syncthing` - [Syncthing](https://syncthing.net/), continuous file synchronization program

## Using the PPA

In order to use the PPA, you need to reference it in `opkg` configuration:

```
$ echo src kedder-ppa http://openvario.lebedev.lt/opkg/armv7vet2hf-neon >> /etc/opkg/customfeeds.conf
$ opkg update
```

Then packages can be installed using regular `opkg` commands, for example:

```
$ opkg install openvario-compman
```

## Building the PPA

In order to build the packages, this layer needs to be added to the working
openvario build. Check out [OpenVario build
instructions](https://github.com/Openvario/meta-openvario) for details on
setting up the build environment.

Edit the `.env` environment file and specify the path to the working dir of 
Openvario working directory, e.g.:

```
OPENVARIO_IMAGE_DIR=../meta-openvario
```

Start the build container:

```sh
docker compose run --rm dev
```

Build can be configured using these variables in your `local.conf`:

* `PPA_UPLOAD_DEST` - destination for uploading the PPA repository. In
  `host:path` format

Building the ppa is done using this command:

```
$ bitbake ppa-repo -c build_ppa
```

The package archive will end up in `tmp/deploy/ppa` directory of the build
workspace directory. Build system also creates a shell script to upload
packages to the public server using rsync, which can be run from the shell:

```
$ tmp/deploy/ppa-upload.sh
```

## Building the complete image

It is possible to build the complete image with all software included in this PPA. Use this command:

```sh
bitbake openvario-image-ovshell
```

## Adding new software to PPA

The list of packages included in the PPA is provided in `DEPENDS` variable of
`recipes-ppa/repo/ppa-repo.bb` recipe. New packages are added by creating build
recipes and referencing them in this variable.
